---
layout: post
title:  "Ditching NSL KDD Dataset"
author: "Ke He"
description: "Outlines my decision to switch from NSL KDD to CSE-CIS-IDS2018"
---

## NSL KDD problems

Previously I have been working with NSL KDD datasets to train and evaluate my neural network classifier, and creating adversarial examples. As part of the post-validation of adversarial samples, the 41 features of NSL KDD dataset has to be extracted from wireshark somehow. Upon searching on the internet it turns out that NSL KDD datasets are [**very** bad](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/22500525/nsl-kdd-features-from-raw-live-packets). The main reasons are:

-   Not realistic even in 1998
-   most attacks well understood and thus not used since 1998
-   The cleanups of NSL KDD generates bias towards some attacks

From my observations of the dataset, many attacks used cannot be found in common penetration testing software such as metasploit. There are also no information on how the content features and traffic features are exactly computed, meaning the features we gather may be different from the original dataset. Therefore due to these concerns I have decided to switch to different IDS dataset that are more recent and well documented.

## [CSE-CIC-IDS2018 on AWS](https://www.unb.ca/cic/datasets/ids-2018.html)

The dataset includes seven different attack scenarios: Brute-force, Heartbleed, Botnet, DoS, DDoS, Web attacks, and infiltration of the network from inside. The attacking infrastructure includes 50 machines and the victim organization has 5 departments and includes 420 machines and 30 servers. The dataset includes the captures network traffic and system logs of each machine, along with 80 features extracted from the captured traffic using CICFlowMeter-V3.

B-profile(benign) is generated by statistical analysis of groups of real users and CIC-BenignGenerator is used to generate realistic traffic patterns based on the statistical analysis. M-profile(malicious) uses the 7 attacks scenarios to attack a target in a predifined network topology.

The CSE-CIS-IDS2018 dataset is well defined, up to date, and has feature extractor provided as well ([CICFlowMeter](http://netflowmeter.ca/)) as raw pcap data for custom feature extraction.

The IDS2018 data set is 133G in total, which is too large. Thus IDS2017 which is a smaller dataset in time and network configuration with everything else the same is used to start thing off.
